http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK26880/

What are brightfield images and how do they relate to the problem of live cell imaging?

The simplest type of microscopy is Brightfield Microscopy, where the light (usually white) is allowed to pass through or reflect from objects of interest. This produces images that might be seen when looking through a manual microscope lens. There are four basic types of brightfield microscopy:

Table of [name, application, pros, cons] http://www.nature.com/nprot/journal/v7/n9/fig_tab/nprot.2012.096_T1.html
1. Brightfield illumination: a measure of the light absorbed by the objects.
2. Dark field illumination: a measure of the light scattered by the objects.
3. Cross-Polarisation: measure of the difference in polarisation between two different wavelengths of light passing through the objects.
4. Phase contrast: measure the difference in path-length of a wavelength of light interfering through the objects.

Brightfield images are commonly used in cell microscopy and have many advantages. They yield dark edges and light background and object interiors. Brightfield imaging is simple to set up and use, and is normally used to check manually that the microscope is focussed on the correct sample in the correct orientation. It does not require excessive amounts of illumination, so it can be used on live cells that might be damaged by high light levels. Disadvantages include the lack of contrast when viewing tissues; the edges will be dark, but often not dark enough to be easily visible. Cells usually have to be stained with coloured dyes or fluorescent proteins to be viewed with their features clearly outlined. Most dyes cannot be used on live cells, so the imaging is limited to fluorescent additions to the tissue.

Brightfield imaging also has limits on the maximum resolution possible. Because of the wavelengths of light used to observe the sample (visible; 400-800 nm), the resolution of the images is limited to 0.2 microns. This is a fundamental limit as a combination of diffraction and the numerical aperture of the lens in the microscope. These limitations also put constraints on the field of view available. In order to gather more data (more cells), a wider field of view must be used. Each pixel in the image can only hold one intensity value that approximates the value at that location in the physical environment, so as the field of view grows, fewer pixels are used to represent a cell, and information about a single cell and its features is lost or reduced.

>>> A maximum live cell imaging resolution calculation based on cell size and cell speed in a medium

A typical animal cell is between 10-20 microns in diameter [ref]. At maximum resolution of 0.2 microns per pixel, between 50-100 pixels are available to represent a cell in one dimension. However, images are restricted to the size of their sensors, which range from 256-2048 pixels across (50-400 microns) [ref]. The smallest (256 pixels, 50 microns) can only represent 2-5 cells. In order to represent hundreds of cells, the resolution must be limited. For example, to capture 20 cells in a 512 pixel sensor, the resolution is between 1-2 microns per pixel, much lower than the maximum.

A live cell can also move in the environment at speeds of between 0.1-1.0 microns per minute [ref]. These speeds are not insignificant compared with the size of the environment (50-200 microns). During the period of the imaging, which might be as long as 10-15 hours [ref], a cell can move between 100-1000 microns, so the field of view needs to accomodate this movement.

INCLUDE FULL CALCULATION WHEN FORMATTED

>>> Transmission and focus limitations

Another disadvantage of brightfield images is their dependence of the location of the focal plane with respect to the objects of interest. If the objects lie in the focal plane, their edges will appear sharp and clearly distinguishable from the background, but outside of the focal plane, objects will become blurred and distorted. The edges of cells when out of focus appear blurred with the background or even lose all contrast and become indistinguishable. In planar environments, this is not a problem, since all objects lie at the same level and the image can be focussed manually or even automatically. Throughout the imaging, the focus can stay fixed and all objects will remain in focus. In extended environments, where cells are free to move vertically, or towards and away from the focal plane, a single focus cannot be used to capture the whole environment. The focus must be fixed at a level that will represent the environment approximately for the duration of the imaging, blurring cells that lie off the focal plane, or the focus must be constant adjusted to capture the greatest number of cells possible. Both methods do not fully capture all available data in the environment.

It should be noted that the type of focus on a cell can be used to distinguish features such as protrusions and the cell nucleus. Moving the cell in and out of focus can reveal details not accessible from looking at a single level. A microscope only observing a single level will miss this extra information.

Things to Google:
1. Diameter of cell
2. Maximum resolution of brightfield
3. Cell speed
4. Size of camera sensors
5. Blurring, in and out of focus, focal plane.
