With few exceptions, animal cells are translucent and colourless, making them difficult to see in most brightfield images [ref]. To work around this, cells can be stained with a variety of dyes and fluorescent proteins to help them show up [ref]. Most of these methods require the cells to be fixed (dead), but several can be used for live cell imaging, for example, GFP or Green Fluorescent Protein, which binds to the DNA inside the cytoplasm of the cell [ref]. When exposed to a blue or ultra-violet light, the GFP will fluoresce with green light and make the marked cells more identifiable. The cytoplasm extends within the cell interior, but does not include the nucleus or the cell wall [ref]. This makes the GFP ideal for indicating the bulk of the cell, but not for accurately locating the edges of cells. This problem is made worse when the resolution of the images is limited by other factors. Lower resolution means fewer pixels are available to represent the response of the GFP in the interior, which makes outlining its structure harder.

The light is typically provided by a laser shining through the sample. The power of the laser can be controlled and should be as high as possible to ensure a high response from the GFP, but low enough to allow the cells to survive for the duration of the imaging, since the laser can cause the cells to heat up and behave strangely or die [ref]. The cells might also require a cooldown period between frames to ensure that they are not damaged. This further restricts the information about the cells. A stronger response from the GFP in the cells would allow for a higher signal-to-noise ratio since other material in the environment such as plastic, other cells, and liquid medium can have a small fluorescent response to the same wavelength of light [ref]. Lower laser power and long cooldown periods result in a low signal-to-noise ratio and a higher uncertainty about the movements of the cells due to lower temporal resolution.

Things to Google:
1. Optical structure of cell
2. Dyes, proteins, staining
3. GFP -> ctyoplasm
4. Cells heat up and die
5. Noise in fluorescence images
