Explain the project in 100 words

1. First try
The method described here allows a 3D environment to be segmented in the manner of a 2D environment by preprocessing the images for popular cell segmentation software. Widely used cell segmentation methods excel at finding objects in an environment where edges and blobs of colour are clearly defined. Images captured using a confocal microscope allow data to represent an extended 3D environment, including data where edges are in focus and out of focus. Traditional segmentation fails when presented with anything other than flat, predictable images.

2. Second try
Traditional cell segmentation relies on locating clearly defined edges and blobs of colour that can be matched to shapes to differentiate them from the background. This fails when presented with a 3D environment where objects of interest have ideal features for segmentation only in a small subset of the data. The method described here uses 3D GFP fluorescence data from a confocal microscope to locate edges for optimal segmentation in an extended set of images. The results can match those of traditional 2D segmentation, or even surpass it, since the 3D data can provide more information than a 2D image.

3. Third try
Modern cell segmentation relies on clearly defined edges and blobs of colour in 2D to differentiate objects of interest from the background. This fails in an extended 3D environment when ideal features for segmentation are only present in a small subset of the data. The method shown here uses 3D GFP fluorescence data from a confocal microscope to preprocess images for widely used cell segmentation software by locating ideal features and presenting them in a 2D context. This produces results that are better than 2D segmentation since 3D information can be used to highlight finer details such as cell protrusions that are otherwise poorly visible in 2D.

4. Expand
Modern cell segmentation [what is this?] relies on clearly defined edges and blobs of colour in 2D to differentiate objects of interest from the background [how does this work?]. This fails in an extended 3D environment [what is this?] when ideal features for segmentation are only present in a small subset of the data [what does that mean?]. The method shown here uses 3D GFP fluorescence data [what is this?] from a confocal microscope [what is this?] to preprocess images [how?] for widely used cell segmentation software [which software?] by locating ideal features [what are those again?] and presenting them in a 2D context [seriously explain this]. This produces results that are better than 2D segmentation [a bold claim] since 3D information can be used to highlight finer details [how?] such as cell protrusions [what are these? Anything else?] that are otherwise poorly visible in 2D.

5. Explain
Modern cell segmentation relies on clearly defined edges and blobs of colour in 2D to differentiate objects of interest from the background. An edge in an image is an intensity discontinuity in one dimension. Tracing a line from the inside of an object with a defined edge to the outside, the intensity along the line will drop at the edge from the interior value to the edge value and increase again to the background value on the other side. This profile can be described mathematically and a filter can be imposed on the whole image to highlight regions where the profile matches the intensity changes. A blob is a continuous region of similar colour. Both "continuous" and "similar" are subject to tolerances that can be adjusted. A blob can also have a profile that can be described mathematically, and can be searched for in an image in much the same way as edges. 
