how does basic edge detection work?
Cite canny, sobel.
what does this mean for cells?

An image can be described as a map of pixel intensities, usually represented by values between 0-255. Most images are stored as 2D arrays where intensity values can be accessed by specifying two coordinates, X and Y. When adjacent pixels in a line or an area have a similar value, that region can be said to be continuous. If the values in the region vary with some gradient, the pixels can be said to be discontinuous, and could indicate a feature such as an edge or a corner.

Distinguishing discontinuous edges in a continuous background is a crucial task when segmenting objects. The intensity curve (variation) along a path can be described by its derivative and second derivative such that points in the image that satisfy the same profile can be highlighted and deemed to be edge pixels. This secondary 2D map of accepted and rejected pixels is known as a "binary mask" . A mask can be laid over an image of any channel and be used to select or reject pixels from that channel. In this way, binary decisions in one channel can be used to affect or make decisions about another.

A mask is a type of image where the values of the pixels themselves are not as important as their ability to affect the pixels of other images. While binary masks can make simple choices about what pixels to keep, more complex masks can make decisions based on a number of criteria.

A commonly used edge detection method uses the Canny filter. This selects edges by calculating the vertical and horizontal gradients of the image, suppressing pixels that do not lie on the highest point of the edge [diagram] (non-maximal suppression), and completing discontinuous edges with the same orientation (edge hysteresis). This method not only locates edges, but also indicates their orientation. This is especially useful when trying to locate complex, but closed shapes like cells. The orientations of the edges can help to guide the segmentation around the path of the edge until it meets itself. The Canny edge detector also ranks edge pixels by the strength of the gradient and removes those with a gradient that is either too small or too big, a "double threshold" , assuming that these pixels are accounted for by noise. The final product very accurately represents the apparent edges in the image, hence the method's widespread use.

Things to Google:
1. How to do a literature review
